you ever work on something that you're
extremely proud of and then everyone
else goes and tries to change it and add
to it and profit off of it I think
that's what it feels like to be James
Wan bro made the first two insidious
movies which you know I thought were
decent and then his writing partner who
is also the same dude who got locked
away and saw kept it going and it's like
they're all pretty much just stream it's
now so let me explain in terms of the
timeline it goes chapter three chapter
four chapter one then chapter two cuz
dyslexia the whole franchise is pretty
much centered around Elise who in the
third movie had lost her husband due to
a suicide so she quit hunting ghosts
only came out of retirements cuz a girl
named Quinn needed her help and then she
ends up partnering up with these two
Mormons and eventually deals with the
family from insidious one and two but
four it takes place right before she
deals with Darth Maul Ghul as she has to
face her worst enemy yet her childhood
we get a flashback to her house New
Mexico which for whatever reason is
located on the sets of there will be
blood they got all these oil rigs going
on 24/7 making creepy noises in the
middle of the night but worse than that
is that the power in their house always
goes out because they live on 666 Green
Mile and the building where they execute
people for the death penalty is right
next door
baby Elise already has her powers at
this point so obviously she's being
haunted by everyone who's dying there
and while her mama gives her love the
problem is that her dad hates it that
she's always freaking out and decides to
always punish her which if you torture
people for a living and you're a
professional at punishing people it's
like getting spanked by a tennis player
the dude decides to throw her into the
basement where obviously ghosts are
going to reside and she comes
face-to-face with the r.kelly junior
ghost that was trapped in her closet now
unlike the previous creepy ones an
insidious like the dead male bride or
that creepy dancing boy this one is
practically a custodian like it's
gimmick is that it has keys four fingers
the dude is walking around like Arwen
from Zack and Cody with a set of keys
but the ghost has absolutely no idea
what it's doing it does get baby Elise
to unlock a door which means that it
gets set free and it
ends up hanging Elise's mom but then
like I said it's free but never leaves
the house forward to 2010 which is the
year before the first movie takes place
and she gets a call from a dude who's
living in her childhood home her being a
sidekick
brings her sidekicks meets the dude who
bought this house even though everyone
told him not to and as a locking in her
childhood bedroom trying to figure out
what the demon wants she finds a
Steamboat Willie whistle that the mom
gave her brother saying you know just
blow this whistle and I'll be there and
whenever you're scared I'll arrive well
she gets spooked that loses the whistle
at this point let me say that this movie
should really only be 15 minutes long it
just takes at least like 30 minutes to
get to each room she ends up in the
basements here's someone with the
whistle she just had and finds a slave
behind the door like not a demon not a
ghost an actual human slave turns out
this dude who bought the house was
reenacting don't breathe and had a slave
girl in his basement and the fact that
he called people in shows that he was
more scared of the demons than getting
caught with a prisoner at this point I'm
on the ghost side I'm rooting for them
to eat his soul and specs aka Leroy now
the right of the movie comes in roaring
like a lion kills this witch with a
wardrobe and then it it turns out he was
innocent he was he was just being
possessed by the key demon so I'm back
in the human side they go to a diner and
Elise meets her two nieces who she's
never met before and reunites with her
brother who obviously hates her
he vents about how she ruined his
childhood because she was always
freaking him out about monsters and all
these crazy things he was seeing only
for her to run away and leave him with a
real monster their dad deep stuff
we get a flashback of when they were
teens and moment where she actually saw
a ghost in the laundry room which
dun-dun-dun also was not a ghost but an
actual prisoner who her father had
because he was kidnapping people and
hiding them in the house again it was
also the key monster possessing him but
nonetheless that was something that
happened flash forward to the present
time and the younger niece gets lured
into the basements where she gets
straight stiff-armed in the face no flag
and then key dude approaches her like
that creepy spider doll from Toy Story
and uses his most sinister power on her
he meets her
I could use that power at least goes
into the further aka purgatory aka the
upside-down to go find her knees but
then gets trapped and ends up in a time
loop with her younger self from the
intro of the movie now I always wonder
when you're in a position like this why
you just don't reveal everything to
yourself but I guess he then wouldn't
have a movie
the older niece reveals that she too has
the same powers as Elise so you know
they have a way to continue the
franchise goes in to save both of them
in the further and it turns out that the
key Monster has this whole prison of
souls that he keeps for his pleasure and
he tries convincing Elise by offering up
her father so that she can punish him
the same way that he used to punish her
but she goes like no I I had the same
scenario in the third movie says no
conveniently gets handed the whistle
that the mom gave the brother she blows
it in the further and the ghost of
Elise's mom comes out of nowhere karate
chops key dude and saves a day that may
make you wonder well if the mom was
always there why didn't she come out
earlier is it like one of those
scenarios where the moms looking at them
going sorry honey I see that you're
dying but I told you you got to follow
my rules if you don't blow the whistle I
can't save you they start walking back
to the real world when Elise passes the
kid from the first insidious movie
trapped in a cellar like again at least
at one point questions all she could
have done something to save previous
people bro you're looking at an innocent
child that you just made eye contact
with locked up in a prison cell I guess
you got to leave them there or else we
won't get chapter one of insidious which
is exactly where this movie ends not
like a new scene not like you know a
different angle or a deleted scene to
add to the context of the story no they
legit just rent the first movie off red
box and let the scenes from that movie
play at the end of this one as a matter
of fact looking back at the third one is
they're practically the same endings you
have them trapped in the further and the
third and the fourth they have to call
for their dead mother to come save them
she appears out of nowhere defeats the
demon final scene is a lease on the
bedroom going to sleep and then gets
awakened by Darth Maul ghoul teasing a
movie that we already got in 2010
y'all gotta stop recycling thank you
guys for checking out this video a bunch
more rundowns coming your way but if you
have any suggestions on upcoming movies
or shows let me know down below and also
let me know what you thought of this
masterpiece of the movie the 1st of
January the month of cinematic
achievements